Prohibit root mutation and subscription types from implementing interfaces (#1225)
graphql/graphql-spec: spec/Section 3 -- Type System.md

The {`query`} _root operation type_ must be provided and must be an Object type.

The {`mutation`} _root operation type_ is optional; if it is not provided, the

> service does not support mutations. If it is provided, it must be an Object type
> that does not implement interfaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
service does not support mutations. If it is provided, it must be an Object type
that does not implement any interface and is not a member of any union.
```

Author: If we were to also restrict the mutation and subscription root type from being a member of a union, I think that validation should go here instead? 

https://github.com/graphql/graphql-spec/blob/September2025/spec/Section%203%20--%20Type%20System.md?plain=1#L1452-L1457

Since it would make the union type invalid, not the root type?

Reviewer: I see what you’re saying, but a union won’t know whether something is a root operation type or not. Nothing knows that until the schema itself is constructed, I think?

Author: I think the whole schema has to be constructed in either case? At least in GraphQL-JS we know what the root types are when validating union members.

> is not a member of any union

To translate this to code we'd have to iterate through each type, find all unions and then check each member to see if it's the same as the root type.

Adding it to the union validation we just need to get the root subscription and mutation types from the schema and check against each member.

Similarly, the {`subscription`} _root operation type_ is also optional; if it is
not provided, the service does not support subscriptions. If it is provided, it

> must be an Object type that does not implement interfaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
must be an Object type that does not implement any interface and is not a
member of any union.
```
